We have to understand how capital cost and structure are connected with investment decisions of the company
Here is a simple example from practice
The end of 90s, a recent story
Kabalka-Energo, Kabardino-Balkaria energy system
which was always considered to be energy-deficient
and was supplied with its own energy resources, only 5%
and was supplied mainly from the Stara Plata region
decided to raise the level of its energy independence
and build a power plant on a small mountain river
The power was not great, but the time period was difficult
Remember, it was after the default, and the capital cost on the Russian market was very high
And yet they decided to take this step
How was this investment decision connected with capital cost and structure?
No investment decision, especially such a large-scale one, is possible without the participation of the company's own capital
Kabalka-Energo offered 20% of the world's capital, not less than 20%
Because the country's interest should be clearly confirmed
This can be done only by financing
20% of the capital was allocated for the implementation of this project
The rest, 80%, had to be found on the market
One of the Austrian banks offered to finance this investment project
Under certain conditions
And here is the question
How to tie the return of this project with the cost of money, including internal financing and loan money?
Everyone understood that the return of the project is very high
It is simply impossible, because the energy resources of the river were weak, and therefore it is simply impossible to build a large power plant
There was a hope to build it quickly and to implement all three blocks as it was designed
I had to delve into the fate of this scheme of financing this project
Simply because Kabalka-Energo borrowed a huge amount of money from the Institute of Hydroprojects
They were the designers, and I was just financing the project
And in order to repay the debts of the company, I had to participate in the development of the proposal
How to compare the return of the project with the source of financing, find additional money, repay the debts and implement the power plant?
The project was planned for three years
A few years passed, and I accidentally saw a person who had a relationship with those places
The money was found then
Under the guarantee of the Kabardino-Balkaria government, the bank agreed to allocate the required amount of loan money
However, an additional guarantee from the Russian State-Owned Enterprises was required
But due to the fact that it was a structural division of the holding, there were no problems with that guarantee
But the whole thing is, and this should be taken into account, how the tranches of the loan money will be distributed
One Western bank will never give the allocated amount of money at once
It will be distributed quarterly, or even monthly, and the money will be transferred gradually, while simultaneously controlling how it will be used
Five or six years after the financing scheme worked, I received information
The first block was introduced on time, but there were only three
When the financing of the second block began, one tranche was used for a wrong purpose, it was simply stolen
This was very alarming for the bankers
The tranches went bankrupt, the price of capital changed dramatically
The return on investment began to lag behind the cost of loan resources, and the construction of the new block was frozen
So, only one block out of three still works
Here is the link between the price of capital and investment decisions, for which we allocate additional capital
What does the financial lever do in this case?
A very popular expression is the financial risk meter
We talked about business risk, but there is also financial risk, which is related to the increase in debt financing
This financial lever is manifested in the effect of the financial lever
It is very easy to understand its meaning in a schematic form
Pay attention to this slide
If you look at the right side of the picture, you will see that the element of the financial lever is the shoulder
The shoulder of the lever consists of two elements, the capital itself and the loan capital
The capital itself is always small, because you can't make a lot of money, it takes a lot of time
You can make money quickly and in large quantities
The shoulder of the lever, that is, the ratio of the loan to the capital, can be increased very quickly
By increasing the pressure of the lever, I raise a large amount of assets
Because we borrow money to increase the additional capacity
From here, the turnover increases, the income increases, and the business earns
In ideal conditions, this scheme works flawlessly, so the whole world uses it
Pay attention to this, there is another mysterious element in this scheme, the differential
The lever is not directly transferred to the assets, but through the differential
It is this differential that determines the level of financial risk in a specific expression
Its meaning, how it works, and the efficiency of the financing scheme
What happens here? By acquiring the necessary amount of assets through additional borrowing of money from the market
I want these assets to be transformed into turnover
A large amount of adequate turnover, if the rate of asset growth as a result of additional financing increased by 5%
It is necessary for an entrepreneur to have at least 5% rate of growth
The ratio of the rate of growth of the turnover and assets is one of the patterns of effective financing
If you pay attention, there are certain books, where the judgment of the efficiency of the business
The rate of growth of the income should be equal to the rate of growth of the turnover
This is the ideal, when the signs are always in one direction
It is the highest success of any business, but it is very difficult to support it
The difficulty is how to maintain the differential in the right framework during such a long-term business
Let's see how it works
Look at this slide, the relationship between the structure and the value of the capital
How the risks are manifested as the structure of financing changes
If I take a graph, I will put a net profit on the vertical, and a profit on the horizontal, up to the interest rate
It is often called a net profit, and it is from it that a net profit is formed
The financial risk is how successfully I can transform the net profit into a net profit
In the end, everyone is interested in the net profit, what will remain of the net profit of a particular business
The risk of this transformation is the nature of the financial risk
Pay attention to this diagram, there are three curves in these coordinates
The first curve is that there are no mutual funds, the value of the loan is zero
That is, the financing of this business is done by means of its own funds
The second curve is that the ratio of mutual funds and own funds is one, that is, 50 to 50
We talked about this point in the judgments about the level of financial dependence
It is shifted to the right, but since I am forming a structure of capital for the same amount of net profit
These two curves intersect at one point, because I put one and the same segment horizontally
Expressed in profit to pay interest and tax
The third curve is even steeper, here the ratio of mutual funds and own funds is two
Pay attention to the next vertical line, the sharpening point of the break
This is the planned profit, I decided to increase the profit by 50%
For this I need to earn the source of this profit, that is, the profit to pay interest and tax
I put this source on the horizontal axis, draw a line vertically to cross all three lines
And I find that the maximum net profit is obtained if the ratio of mutual funds and own funds is two
But it is clear that there is no net profit in the net profit, so the risk is much higher
This scheme is instructive in that it must be looked at immediately, and before the breaking point, and after
Before the breaking point, and the horizontal line on which this point is located, the economic profitability is equal to the average rate of interest
This is the original judgment
If my business is developing from the very beginning
And we are talking about choosing a financing structure before the breaking point
Then, of course, the preference should be given exclusively to your own financing
If you remember the table of factors, we said that in the initial period, the priority should be given to your own financing
Here is a graphical confirmation
The curve when the mutual funds are equal to zero, below the breaking point, above the rest
This means that this is a preferable way of financing
And after the breaking point, everything is exactly the opposite
The greatest return is possible with a huge financial lever, when the mutual funds are equal to two
How to make sure that the financial lever is not bent, that is, the financial lever should be left in such a position
So as not to violate the financial balance of this business
Often people say that the financial lever is a sharp weapon
They say that the weak are weaker, stronger and stronger because of the use of the lever
This is how important it is for a financier to structure the factors
Here are the priorities at the expense of their own sources, here are the priorities at the expense of debt financing
Exactly for the situation, at any time, for their business, they have laid out the factors
And from here, the sharpness of this weapon will be immediately neutralized
Why is the strong becoming even stronger?
If the financial dependence is small, I build up the financial lever, I increase the effort, increase the power, increase the turnover, and the return from increased power, and the business grows
On the contrary, if the business is weak, by increasing the pressure of the financial lever, I can simply destroy the business
Why? Look at what the financial lever differential expresses
Here is a simple formula, the differential is equal to 1 minus the tax rate, but there is a tax return rate
Multiplied by the economic profitability minus the average rate of interest
Remember the slide, the formula for the sufficiency of one's own capital
The other abbreviation expresses the same thing
You see how often this value in brackets is repeated when making financial decisions of different meanings
The financial lever's shoulder is the relationship of the borrower to the owner
What happens, how does the differential work?
When trying to increase the impact of the financial lever by increasing the debt financing, the sign of the differential can change to the opposite
So, the strong becomes even stronger, when the sign of the differential is positive, the business becomes even stronger
The weak becomes even weaker, when the sign of the differential is positive
The creditor and any institution that gave you money for investment will be attentive to your financial accountability
As soon as they notice that the rate of growth of the turnover is behind the rate of growth of the assets, they will immediately understand that you have entered the financial risk
They will immediately take all measures to increase the value of the loan, they will insure their risks
The value of the loan is increasing, it is crossing the economic profitability line, the value in brackets is negative
If you continue to work in this capital structure, the business will die
Therefore, all attention should be directed to the careful monitoring of the dynamics of these parameters
The rate of growth of the assets, the rate of growth of the turnover
If you see that the rate of growth of the turnover is behind, and you are the first to see it, because you are the authors of financial accountability
You should immediately say that you can't borrow anymore, because the financial lever will work against you
This is the main thing that should be monitored by the financier in the conditions of debt financing
Then the financial lever will be good for you, you will earn additional profits, and the owners will be satisfied
In practice, a universal formula is used, it is called the financial lever coefficient
The profitability of the assets is equal to the profitability of the assets, or economic profitability
Plus d to c is the financial lever shoulder, r to a minus i is the financial lever differential
The only thing to keep in mind is the profitability of the assets and the value of the debt with the tax shield
That is, 1 minus the tax rate for the profit, and for the Russian conditions, 1 minus 0, 24, with the tax rate of 24%
That is, each component of this formula is multiplied by 0.76
The more you get, the more you get.
It is immediately clear from this formula under what conditions the profitability of the capital is higher than the profitability of the assets
Only if the value is positive, that is, the differential is positive
Then the owners will be satisfied with such a financial lever
And vice versa, as soon as the profitability of the assets is equal to the value of the loan, the value in the bracket is 0
The profitability of the capital is equal to the profitability of the assets
This is a signal from the financing structure, such a company needs to be quickly understood, the structure of the capital needs to be optimized
There are a lot of questions when forming the structure of the capital
When we say, is there an equivalence condition when the end result of the business is approximately the same
Both when using your own financing and when using the financing of the debt
That is, to take into account such a structure of capital, which is of course profitable, but more often than not expresses a net profit for one share
It was equal to the various structures of capital
This is the original idea of the equivalence of the value of the capital
The equivalence is understood in two senses
The first sense is that the debt can be short or long
So, by varying the various structures of the debt, you can also choose a state when the company's financial profit is achieved with the various contents of the debt structure
Where does this problem arise from?
It's very simple, everyone understands that the longer the period of debt financing, the more risks the creditor takes on himself
And everyone understands that there is no constant 100% rates
And these risks, when converted into profitability, the cost of a long-term debt is usually higher than the cost of short-term loans
It would seem that in order to get the maximum profit, you need to use short-term financing
But here the reaction to profitability is ambiguous, it cannot be released from the view of how the company's liquidity is doing
Short-term loans should be returned more often
Due to the fact that the rate is not constant, it is possible to reduce interest rates or increase them
But the most difficult thing in managing short-term financing is that the more often you have to return the loan money, the more problems arise in choosing the means to do it
You always need to save up the reserves, and if the rate of repayment of the loan is active, then this problem is constant
It is difficult to track liquidity, that is, the state of payment is very difficult
And so there is a certain balance between the average level of profitability that I have for this company and the level of liquidity
This balance determines how many long-term and short-term debts are needed to manage liquidity and to make the profitability acceptable
The problem of equivalence of capital and debt can be easily expressed formally
Pay attention to this slide
Pure profit is equal to the profit before the payment of taxes, e, minus the sum of interest on the debt, multiplied by 1-t, which is the tax shield for the profit
Minus the sum of dividends on the pre-agreed shares, and divided by the number of ordinary shares in circulation
How can I calculate the equivalence of various schemes of financing for different capital structures?
I take the right part of the formula and for different capital structures I equate these values, that is, I use the right part twice
The first time I use the right part of the formula to formulate the structure taking into account the debt, the second time taking into account my own capital
And I solve the equation of e. What do I find?
I find the balance between the profit before the payment of interest and taxes, which provides the same pure profit on shares for different financial structures
I find the balance, and then I start to formulate the debt structure from this optimal value
And that's the whole task of finding the equivalence states
Where are these judgments important when making investments?
We attract money to let it grow, right?
Therefore, all judgments on the structure and value of capital are important from the point of view of investment
In order to solve this problem in practice, there are three models of capital value in science
The first is the actual or current value
If I take the balance of any company, I will calculate the value of my own capital on the right side
I calculate the value of debt financing, which is the actual structure of capital
I substitute the values of the current and current components in the formula of average expenses for capital and get the actual value of capital today
The next is the target value of capital
If I use the data on the balance, which characterizes the actual state of capital, as a basis for making the next investment decision
I decided to increase the turnover by 20%, and I need additional sources of financing
If I add this additional demand to the existing structure of capital, I will get the target value of capital
The third and most important model is the limit value of capital
It plays a fundamental role in the final assessment of the success or acceptance of investment decisions
The limit value of capital is the maximum value of the additional capital, which is not enough for the company to meet the required income standards
We said that every investor who provides me with financing has an idea of what I will get from it
This is the understanding of the required income standards
If I attract additional money to the market within certain limits, and the value does not change, and I exceed these limits, which are the additional units
The price will be different immediately
If the price exceeds the required income standard, then it is simply impossible to use this source of financing
Why does science use the term limit value of capital?
This understanding is due to the fact that capital is a business factor, just like labor factor
What is the limit value of labor resources?
The value of each additional employee on the market, and here each additional investment ruble
This understanding from the point of view of production factors makes this term easy to understand for people who practice it
The initial parcels that are necessary for calculating the limit value of capital
We discussed the methods of capital optimization
The reaction of investors and creditors to the change in the structure of capital is not instantaneous
It will be necessary, but it will take some time before investors and creditors will appreciate the return on investment
So, at a certain time interval, we can attract additional sources of financing without changing their value
This is the first point. Any source of financing, whether external or internal, has a certain limit on the volume at an unchanged value
This is the first condition for calculating the limit value of capital
The second condition makes me look for the exact limits outside the range of money attraction
Maybe money attraction will be more expensive, but I am ready to use such a source
But we have to calculate the transition from one value to another
And finally, we have to realize that with certain parameters of data interconnection, the financing plan can change the value of financing so much
That it will lead to the destruction of the investment project and even the financial balance of the business
And this is what happened with the construction of the Ausha Gershkoi GS
How to solve this problem? How to find these intervals when the value of capital does not change?
How to find the value of capital within these limits?
There has been a problem of interconnection of capital and the acceptance of investment projects since ancient times
Pay attention to this slide. There are 6 steps in the algorithm
The problem is solved in a way that is understandable to any practitioner of the financial language
Everything immediately falls into place
The first step is to determine the size, cost and the specific weight of each source of financing for the projects
No matter how many there are. 2, 3, maybe 1
The second step is to determine the parameters of the budget of the investment
What are the parameters of the budget of the investment?
When you discussed the investment decision in the previous sessions, you said that each project has an internal profitability
And the volume of capital investments that it requires for its implementation
These two parameters represent the parameters of the budget of the investment
I have to make a separate table with these parameters and reflect the entire portfolio of investment projects in this table
The third step is to calculate the parameter of critical points
I have to calculate the points where the value of the capital ends and the jump occurs
It is considered very simple
The parameter of the critical point is equal to the value of the source of financing that is most available to me divided by its specific weight
It will be as it will be
Let's say I have an available source of financing of 4 million dollars
Its specific weight is 50%
4 divided by 0.5 is 8
This is the limit within which the value of this source of financing will be unchanged
If I attract more, the structure of the capital will change the value
And this will be my idea of this critical point
The point of the break-in of capital spending
When we have defined the volume limits of financing at the unchanged value
Now we have to calculate the average cost of capital spending according to the structure of the target financing
I calculate the cost of financing within these limits
The next step is to build two graphs
The first graph is the limit of capital spending according to the parameters of the critical points
And the volume of the capital attracted
And the average cost of capital spending within these critical points
This is the first parameter for the graph
I will build this graph in the coordinates of the average cost of capital spending
Vertically and horizontally, the volume of financing
When the financing volume at the unchanged value is over
You will immediately see a jump on the graph
The cost of financing increases and the curve goes up
The second graph is the graph of investment opportunities
I have made a table for the capital budget
There will be only two parameters
The volume of capital investments for each project and the internal norm of profitability
Vertically, I build the graph again
The profitability of projects is vertical
Horizontally, the volume of capital investments that are necessary for their implementation
Then I put one graph on another
I draw conclusions about the acceptance of this financing scheme for investment projects
Here is a concrete example
Mos Isolator is my company, where I worked as a factory director in Moscow for three years
It has a parameter of the investment budget
This is a very specific data
We agreed on two parameters for each project
Project A, the volume of capital investments is $2 million
The profitability of the project is 13%
Project B, the volume of capital investments is 3%
The profitability is 15%
This is the most attractive profitability of the project
Project 3, the volume of capital investments is 2.9%
I can't say that I have to cancel the last project
When you were discussing the investment project, you were probably told that there are projects that the business simply cannot refuse
In order to continue it
For example, compliance with environmental requirements at the enterprise
It is clear that the return, the power of the business does not increase
But without solving this problem, you will not be able to work further
That's why sometimes you have to implement these projects
Here is the parameter of the investment budget
When I understand these data, the question arises
What does the owner of this business need in order to implement all three projects without losing control over them?
With different funding structures
What does it mean not to lose control?
We started with the idea of capital in balance
Here is the capital of the property, and on the left is the capital of the function
The capital of the property, which is the passive part of the balance, characterizes the structure of power in this company
By changing the funding structure, attracting additional funding sources on the external market, especially in the part of the property capital
Very often, the investor comes with so-called restrictions
They introduce additional restrictions for companies that accept investments
For example, I will provide you with funds for financing the project if you include my person or, according to my recommendations, the board of directors
This will definitely affect the structure of power in the company
That's why entrepreneurs try to develop the investment financing scheme in such a way as not to lose control over the company
The easiest way to achieve this is to have a structure of financing, a structure of power over the company
Once the structure is formed, it should be distributed further in the conditions of the target capital structure
And it should be left the same, for example, 50-50
The owners of the company have dictated that the financing of the projects should be carried out at 50% at the expense of existing sources
And 50% at the expense of additional shares
Of course, additional shares can destroy the structure of the property
But they are sure that the capital structure will withstand changes without losing control over the owners
And the control will be preserved
The company has the opportunity to send a loan of $1.7 million to the financier, that is, available money
And we agreed to finance 50% at the expense of additional shares
Let's look at the company's accounting
The modern capital structure is presented in equal parts
The property with a return of 16% per year and a long-term currency loan of 8% per year
But here we should keep in mind that 8% is an effective rate, and is corrected to the tax shield
That is, 1-T, the value in brackets, I have already used it in the calculation
Then the actual capital cost is 0.5, that is, 50% per 8 years, plus 0.5 per 16 years of capital
The average cost is 12
These are the initial parcels for determining the maximum capital costs
And then we say that to attract money to finance this investment portfolio, we need to attract money with the additional emission of shares
And then the question arises
We have agreed that the theorists still do not give us an exact answer to how much a share costs
Therefore, in the real world, the company rarely takes responsibility for the valuation of the value of the emission of share capital
Usually, it is attracted by the investment bank
It accumulates a huge amount of information about the company's competitors, analogs, the dynamics of the exchange rate change
And having a huge amount of additional information, it more accurately determines the possible value of the emission
But, as you understand, such services are not free
I had to conduct two emissions of shares at the same factory
The first was done by myself, primarily emission, transformation of a state enterprise into a private one
It is understandable that this emission was formal
The second emission, attracting additional financing for investment projects, required the attraction of consultants
Of course, it was not free, it was additional money spending
And we agreed on a general approach to the valuation of capital costs
All the financial costs, including the costs for attracting consultants, investment bankers, and the volume of the attractive source
As for the emission of shares, public placement, it is rarely done by a company that is responsible for the implementation of this project
Of course, it attracts specialists, investment companies, or some investment bank
And they help the company to place this emission at the right price
They calculate the market opportunities, they live a market life, market agents, and they understand this better
They have a wide clientele, and this is why this work is not done
This work on guaranteed placement of the emission was called underwriting in science
The underwriting costs, that is, guaranteed placement, if the guarantee is taken by the investment bank
It was about 10% of the emission volume
The cost is quite impressive
Investment bankers calculated the situation for this company, and they said that the emission will be 20% per year
Then I put a formula, the average value of capital is 0.5 by 8%, plus the value has not changed for a long time
And 0.5 by 20%, the top emission has a cost of 20%, the average capital cost is 14%
And what are the limits I have this cost?
We looked at the formula, the volume of the available source is equal to the volume of the available value, 1.7 million dollars
I divide it by 0.5, 1.7 divided by 0.5, 3.4 million dollars
The value of capital is unchanged in these limits, and it is equal to 14%
And then we have to reflect all this on the graph
We agreed that the basic parameter of the investment project is its internal profitability, the internal norm of profitability, IRR
The first project B had a profitability of 15%, and the financing volume, or the volume of the co-position 3, you see the size of the investment
The first segment, from 15 I made a horizontal line to mark 3, and I reflected the parameters of this project
The second project had a profitability of 13%, and it required 2 million dollars
The next fat curve characterizes the second investment project
The third project is unlikely to be realized in these conditions
If the original capital cost was 12%, and it has a return of 9%, it is clear that in such conditions the capital cost will not miss this investment project
The last curve with a return of 9%, financing volume 2, this is the curve of investment opportunities
You can apply the limit capital cost curve to this graph
We calculated that the horizontal line is 3.4 million dollars, and the profitability is 14%
The first curve shows the limit capital cost of this company
We agreed that based on the limit capital cost, each additional ruble of investment resources will be more expensive
The curve goes up, and I didn't even count it, it is clear that it will be more expensive, but the meaning of calculations disappears
Because I looked at the curve of investment opportunities
All subsequent projects, except for 15%, were below, so they can be realized if the capital cost falls
And it is increasing, so the further judgments are meaningless
What conclusion can I make from this?
I can take only the first project for the realization, it was under the number B
With a capital investment volume of 3 million, and we have 3.4 million, we have enough money
And with profitability 15%, and we have expenses 14%
So this is the only acceptable project in this situation
You will find more detailed examples in the material, but the meaning is the same
Calculate the parameters of critical points, that is, the volumetric parameters of available financing
Calculate the capital cost for each critical point
No matter how many sources you attract, the further calculation is the same
Critical point, volumetric parameters, capital cost
The next critical point, capital cost again
And then you make conclusions on the parameters of the investment budget
What conclusions do the financial directors make about the theory of capital structure?
The authoritative scientists of the West sometimes say that
It seems that the theory of capital structure is mystical
Because each company is unique, the set of factors that determine the structure of capital is different
The combinations can be different
So science is not able to offer something universal
And here is how the practitioners react to this
These are the conclusions from the research of the last years
The most important factor is financial flexibility
That is, maintaining a low level of your debt or financial dependence
In order to be prepared for the unforeseen circumstances
Scientists have recently stated that the world has moved into a global economy or post-industrial development
These are not empty words, there are very strong and objective grounds for this
Post-industrial means that the period of industrial development of the world economy is over
This means that the world has accumulated production capacities that are at least twice as large as the needs of the planet's population
It makes no sense to build new factories, it is only worth turning on the built-up capacity and the world will be overwhelmed with everything necessary
In such conditions, competitive struggle begins to take on special forms
Today, it is said that obtaining additional competitive advantages becomes possible exclusively on the path of innovation
That is, I will accumulate some special knowledge and this will be my guarantee of maintaining competitiveness for the future
This is where the risks arise
We have agreed from the very beginning that the more pioneering a project is, the more risks it involves
This means that the concern for risks becomes the number one concern
This is why the number one priority of the world's largest financial directors is to maintain financial flexibility
I will not have a great financial dependence
The justification for this conclusion should be understood from the following point of view
Not only has the world accumulated production capacities, but also capital
Pay attention to what is happening today
Just 10 years ago, people were saying that the turnover of the physical assets is comparable to the turnover of the financial assets
The second turnover is 40 times higher than the first
Today I have seen the figure of 100 times
The world has accumulated not only a huge amount of physical assets, but also financial assets
This circumstance should not be taken into account
If there is a re-accumulation of financial capital, having a small financial dependence on the external environment
I always have access to a huge amount of financial resources
This is the whole point of flexibility
But there is one fundamental contradiction that must always be taken into account
What is it?
I know for sure that the physical assets are limited
The oil reserves and other resources do not raise the question that they are fundamentally limited
The financial resources are not limited
This contradiction is expressed in the money expression
This contradiction is called fundamental
People are afraid of the fundamental limitation of financial resources or capital
Therefore, they are forced to put financial flexibility as the number one priority
They say that all fund indexes in Russia have started to fall
IMF, IMF and RTS
What happened?
Western financiers, and we have only echoes of the crisis that has started in the mortgage market in the United States
Only echoes
Western investors have started to withdraw money from our market
Transfer money to themselves
We need to support liquidity there
Companies that issued mortgage loans collapse there
We immediately felt the liquidity deficit in Russia
Where did we see it?
One-day loans from 4.5 to 7%
Just in a few days
This is the problem of liquidity deficit
It is clear that without financial flexibility in such conditions, it will be difficult for companies to cope with the unforeseen circumstances
Next, tax benefits from debt
We talked about the tax shield
Financial reliability is in the 4th and 5th places
Theoreticians said that the structure of capital is the problem of tax economy
But it all started with this
And suddenly, this priority is in the 4th place
Why?
In global economy, tax optimization can be done in non-trivial ways
There are a lot of offshore companies, special financing schemes that allow to optimize tax time
Therefore, it is unlikely that it is justified to connect it directly with the structure of capital
Strong companies can afford it
Therefore, it is only in the 4th place
As for financial reliability
If there is intuition and experience of financial experts in the optimization of capital
Then it is clear that the problem of reliability is subject level
The last situation related to this priority
It seemed that it is unlikely that such arrangement of financial reliability is justified today
Let's go back to the example of the United States
The death of Enron
Information is all over the world
But it is a symbolic company, an electric company
It is the base industry of the United States
It just could not remain unnoticed for the US government
It is over
The adoption of additional legislation
The amendments
It is a rarity in the US legal practice
The amendments to the legislation
The requirements of the financial directors on financial reliability are getting stricter
Look what happened
Now the US financial documents have two signatures
There was always one, now there are two
If we take the Russian practice
Since the Soviet times, we have incorporated the term of the right of the second signature
The director of the plant, the chief accountant
One is responsible for the credit manager, his signature was required
And the second signature is the head of the god as a financial controller
We still live with this practice
The whole world criticized us for two signatures
The more signatures, the more agreements, the more friction inside the company
Regarding the content of the financial documents
And suddenly the US went down this path
Now they require that both the financial director and the general director are signed
Here is the price of financial reliability
Although it is on the fifth place
A very important priority for financial directors, especially advanced companies
The theory of the optimal structure of the company is taken seriously
When the assessment of the company's credit rating is made
We have agreed that the first priority is financial flexibility
It should be provided with what?
With easy access to the capital market
When is easy access?
When the company has a credit rating
For example, Intel, the computer, has the highest rating of 3 letters A
It has a rating of 2A
It supports financial flexibility, that is, its financial dependence is very small
It relies mainly on its own capital
Having such a high credit rating
When there is a financial gap, it always turns to the capital market and solves its problems
Therefore, the credit rating is expensive today
This problem has become relevant for Russian companies
You see, the form of borrowing has been cut with the help of VEX programs
Starting from the second half of the 90s
And until 2005, the VEX market was much higher than the bonds market
The standard market financial instruments
In recent years, the bonds market has begun to outrun the VEX market
Why did our entrepreneurs release VEX programs so easily?
Because it does not require state registration
You order a paper with a good degree of protection at the state sign factory
You enter the required VEX parameters
Here is the mission prospect, but it is a complicated document, it remains in the company
Here are all the costs for the release of VEX
You do not need to register anywhere
And you pay with these valuable papers for your debts
As for the release of corporate bonds, it is already a market instrument
Here, the registration of the Federal Financial Markets Service is required
It used to be the Federal Commission on Valuable Papers, but now it has been renamed
So, this instrument requires openness to information
In order to enter the public market, you need to get a credit rating first
You need to apply to Standard & Poor's or another company that has the right to assign these ratings
And the market recognizes them
You get a credit rating, this is the starting point for a long-term loan
In Russia, due to the rapid development of the bond market, the value of the credit rating becomes a priority for financial directors
The next thing that financial directors of advanced companies insist on is to identify risks related to business financing
Financial risks with the choice of capital structure and risks related to individual projects
Here is an example of a construction company in Shigersk, the CIS
It seems that all this is calculated and the parameters of the risks were insured
There were two guarantees, one for the state and one for the head company
The project took all the risks on itself, the project documentation took all the mistakes on itself
The bankers took all the credit risks, it seemed that everything was calculated and the project failed
So, some risks were not identified
We understand that these were operational risks related to the misuse of capital
And the project itself collapsed
And the most relevant thing for today is the optimization of capital structure
This is the main tool for managing capital in the conditions of the bond culture of the company
Look how fast time flies, just two years ago, in Russian printing, the judgments about the implementation of bond thinking began
And suddenly, the Western practice says not only about the bond thinking, but about the formation of the bond culture of the company
The culture oriented to the creation of value is the ability to maintain the balance between the current activity in creating value and investing in the development of future reserves of this business
Look what is really happening
We just said that the financial market is much ahead of the physical asset market
Why such a gap? Can we explain this gap from a scientific point of view?
Yes, we can
When you look at the structure of the company's value with the well-known brands, what is clear?
The value of any company today can be divided into two parts
The current value, I took the financial report, here is the property complex, it costs something, right?
The current value is determined by it
The second part of the value is the future value
The gap between the current and future value of the company with the world brands reaches 20 times
The future value is 20 times bigger than the current value
After the crisis in the NASDAQ market in America, when the high-tech companies fell short of the stock market index, the gap was reduced a little
But the financial market had a short memory, and the gap has risen again in recent years
So we have forgotten the lesson of that crisis
What is a gap of 20 times?
We said that the capital market is not limited in principle
Why did it become possible?
What is the future value expressed in?
Of course, it is expressed in money
It is the future value that has provided the world financial market with a rapid growth
If we understand this and get into the company's world ranking, there is no Russian company in the list of the top 100 brands
There is not even our great Gazprom
It turns out that getting into this list is a great value
So, realizing the realities we have understood in recent years, the world business has begun to form an internal culture
A special internal culture of business management
The culture is oriented to create value
How is this culture cultivated?
As far as I know, the audience for this lecture is the middle-class managers
Today they are called the people on the front line
This is a special term for people who occupy this level of management
Why did this happen?
They took the main burden of implementing the strategies of each company
They are the direct guides of the company's strategy
Therefore, the possession of this audience with financial knowledge is extremely important today
A lot depends on them
This culture is cultivated very simply
The parameters of creating value are moved to the lower levels of management
That is, a certain parameter is brought to each company's division, which pre-determines the company's growth
In principle, a very principled approach was found in the world of science
In 1982, one of the unique trading brands was registered
Pay attention to the authors
Stern and Stuart registered the EVA trading brand, economically added value
This formula, the idea of economically added value, was born from practice
These are practicing people, and they did the right thing by patenting it
What is the greatness of this formula?
I want to bring the parameters of the growth of business value to the business divisions
How to do this?
Economically added value is equal to the investment capital
CE is the volume of investment capital
However, investment capital should give a return
We agreed that the return of any capital is expressed in percents
20-30% per year
Investment capital should give a return greater than the capital spent
Again, the value is in brackets
The profitability of investment capital minus the average capital spent
Both are in percents
The difference is multiplied by the volume of investment capital
If the value is positive, the value is created
Here is the EVA, the economically added value
If the value is negative, the value is destroyed
The whole concern about the practical implementation of the value-oriented culture is implemented in a very simple way
If I managed to select the EVA factors for a particular company, bring them to many divisions
As a control factor, they are included in the stimulation system
And getting a positive value in brackets, the value increases
This is how modern business is managed